
		

					ABSTRACT: 
 
		2016 survey paper on stock market prediction (changes to be done)

	Stock market prediction involves predicting future value of company stock or other financial instrument 
traded on an exchange. Various types of trading can be done in stock market. It could be short term trading or even 
long term trading but if someone can predict the value or class of that entity, it can yield very good return for the 
investment done. Prior to evolution of digital world, predictors continued to use paper work methods like fundamental 
and technical analysis. Various useful technical indicators like SMA, EMA, MACD found to be very useful but with the 
advent of computer technologies and algorithms, prediction moved into technological realm. Analysts started building 
prediction system using Neural Network, Support Vector Machine, Decision Trees, Hidden Markov Model. Prediction 
accuracy really improved using algorithmic approach.This surveycovers various traditional as well asevolutionary data 
mining techniques used for stock market prediction.

KEYWORDS: Stock trading, data mining, support vector machine, neural network,hidden markovmodel, decision trees, technical indicators


		2023 - Stock Price Prediction using Moving Average Time Series(need to be evaluated)

The moving average method is widely used in time-series forecasting, it is one of widely known technical indicator used to predict the stock market future data in 
time series analysis. During its' development, many variation and implementation have been made by researchers. One of its' widely used variation is Exponential
Moving Average (EMA). Basically, EMA is an improvement of Weighted Moving Average (WMA) that gives a special weighting to more recent data than the 
older data, which could not be found in Simple Moving Average (SMA) method. This paper aims to introduce comparative approach of moving average method in 
time series analysis.
Keyword:- Moving average, weighted moving average, Stock, Trading, Trend, time series analysis etc.


	

				I. INTRODUCTION

		2016 - survey paper on stock market prediction (changes to be done)

Goal behind making any financial investment is to achieve above average return for invested money while 
maintaining certain level of involved risks [1] but as the stock market is a very complex, volatile and non-linear 
dynamical system, stock market prediction has become a tough challenge for researchers and investors.
Traditionally majority analysts depend on Fundamental analysis methods [3].Fundamental analysis is all about using 
concrete information about a company's business to try to find the real value of a stock. It is the investigation of the 
forces that affect the well being of the economy, industry groups, and companies. As with most analysis, the goal is to 
derive a forecast and profit from future price movements. 
For day trading or short term trading Technical analysis [4],[5]found to be very effective. It not only enables the 
trader to define a concrete opinion on a particular stock or index but also helps to define
the trade keeping in mind the 
entry, exit and risk perspective. Technical analysis involves use offunctions, formulas such as indicators and oscillators 
derived by time series, and heuristic rules able to revealsignals of change in the market trends. Popular examplesof 
methods are Moving Average Convergence Divergence(MACD), Relative Strength Index (RSI), and stochastic 
oscillator [3] Result of technology evolution invented machine learning methods for stock price prediction. Various 
new data mining methods and algorithms are proposed like Genetic Algorithm (GA), Support Vector Machine(SVM), 
Neural Networks (NNs).
This survey paper has been organized as follows. In Section II we discussvarious proposed methods used for stock 
market prediction. Basicsof fundamental analysis used in trading stocks,most popular technical indicators being used 
for stock market prediction and various machine learning methods, algorithms that can used in this prediction followed 
by conclusion and references.


		2023 - Stock Price Prediction using Moving Average Time Series(need to be evaluated)
Time-series data analysis method is becoming very important in many industries like financial industries, pharmaceuticals, social media companies, web 
service providers, research, and many more. Some of them are using Simple Moving Average (SMA), Exponential Moving Average (EMA), Weighted 
Moving Average (WMA) etc[1-3]. Some others are using soft computing methods such as neural network, fuzzy interface system [4-8] to predict their
future values of a given time series data set. Some other even combine and develop hybrid forecasting methods, such as nero-fuzzy, wavelet-neural 
networks and fuzzy-wavelet method[9-11].
In this study the comparative analysis of the moving average methods is discussed by comparing their performance.





	

			B. TECHNICAL ANALYSIS (INDICATORS)

		2016 - Survey Paper on Stock Market Prediction (need to be evaluated)

Largenumber of technical indicators is available for technical analysis. They use various statistics generated in the 
market like closing prices of history, volume traded etc. Earlier in 1960s and 1970s severalresearchers studied trading 
rules based on TIs. Though they did notfind them much profitable [13],[14] recent studies [15],[16]show that they are 
very useful.Commonly used TIs aresimple moving averages (SMA), exponential moving averages (EMA), moving 
average convergence divergence (MACD), exponential moving average (EMA) and relative strength index (RSI).

			2023 - Stock Price Prediction using Moving Average Time Series

1. Simple Moving Averages (SMA)

	Moving averages give smooth price data to form a trend following indicator. Though they cannot predict price 
direction, but rather give some ideal about the current direction with a lag. Moving averages include lag because they 
are computedusing past prices. Despite this lag, moving averages gives smooth price action and filter out the noise.
They are also useful as the building blocks for many other technical indicators and overlays, such as bollinger 
bands, MACD and the McClellan Oscillator.
	A simple moving average is computedas the average price of a security over a specific number of periods. Most 
moving averages are calculated using closing prices. A 5-day simple moving average is the five day sum of closing 
prices divided by five. As its name indicates, a moving average is an average that moves. Past data is averaged as new 
data becomes available. This causes the average to move along the time scale. Below is an example of a 5-day moving average evolving over three days.

Daily closing prices = 6010, 6020, 6030, 6040, 6050, 6060, 6070
First day of 5-Days SMA = (6010 + 6020 + 6030 + 6040 + 6050) / 5 = 6030
Second day of 5-Days SMA= (6020 + 6030 + 6040 + 6050 +6060) / 5 = 6040
Third day of 5-Days SMA= (6030 + 6040 + 6050 +6060+6070) / 5 = 6050
Yu-Feng Lin, Chien-Feng Huang, Vincent S. Tseng used Simple moving Averages along with a technique of episode 
mining [17]. 

2. Exponential Moving Average (EMA)

	The lag in SMA can be reduced by applying more weight to recent prices. EMA is the extension of SMA. The 
weighting applied to the most recent price depends on the number of periods in the moving average. There are three 
steps to calculating an exponential moving average. In first step simple moving average is caluclated. An exponential 
moving average (EMA) has to start somewhere so a simple moving average is used as the previous period's EMA in the 
first calculation. In second step, the multiplier (weighing multiplier) is computed. Finally, the exponential moving 
average can be computed using the formula.A 12-day EMA can be computed as follows.

SMA: 12 period sum / 12
Multiplier: (2 / (Time periods + 1)) = (2 / (12 + 1)) = 0.1538 (15.38%)
EMA: {Close - EMA (previous day)} x multiplier + EMA (previous day

	A 12-period exponential moving average applies 15.38% weighting to the most recent price. A 12-period EMA can 
also be called an15.38% EMA. A 20-period EMA applies a 9.52% weighing to the most recent price (2/(20+1) = 
.0952). Notice that the weighing multiplier for the shorter time period is greater than the weighing multiplier for the 
longer time period. In fact, the weighting drops by half every time the moving average period 
doubles. YauheniyaShynkevich, T.M. McGinnity, Sonya Coleman, Yuhua Li, AmmarBelatreche [18] used EMA to 
predict the directions of the future price movements.


				2016- Survey Paper on Stock Market Prediction

			CONCLUSION AND FUTURE SCOPE(more content need to be added)

Technical indicators look to predict the future price levels by looking at past patterns and hence useful for long term trading as well as short term trading.
 SMA smoothen the price movement thus eliminating most fake outs but it also cause a lag in buying and selling signals. 
EMA reduces the lag by applying more weight to recent prices hence better than SMA in terms of recent movements in 
the market. 


		2023- Stock Price Prediction using Moving Average Time Series
. Moving Average Methods
	A] Simple Moving Average (SMA) :
		A. Simple Moving Average (SMA) A Simple Moving Average (SMA) is a common average of the previous n data points in time series data. 
	Each point in the time series data is equally weighted, so there are no weighting factors applied to any of the data points. A simple moving 
	average computes the mean of the past N data points and takes this value as the predicted N+1 value [12]
		SMA = {Pm + Pm-1 + ...+ Pm-(n-1)} / 2 (image on the group)

	Where PM, PM-(n-1) and n are immediate data points that occur before the present, to predict the present data point, the size of SMA is n. The SMA is our 
	predicted value. The precision of the model will vary significantly with the choice of n. Higher n would mean that we are willing to go deeper into the 
	past to compute the present value.

		SMA today = {Pm/n} + SMA yesterday - Pm-n / n  (image on the group)

	B]Exponential moving average (EMA) :
		Exponential Moving Average (EMA) An Exponential Moving Average (EMA) is a type of WMA which assigns a weighting factor to each 
	value in the data series according to its age. Like WMA, in EMA the most recent data gets the greatest weight and each data value gets a smaller weight as we go back chronologically.
 But unlike WMA, in EMA the weighting for each older data point decreases exponentially, so its’ never reaching zero [14]. The EMA for a time 	series can be calculated recursively as

		      ( Formula image provided in group)

	where St is the value at time period , Yt is the value of at time period , and 	represents the degree of weighting decrease, a constant smoothing factor 
	between 0 and 1. Commonly, is calculated using the formula

		      ( Formula image provided in group)


				Result and Discussion :
	           2023 - Stock Price Prediction using Moving Average Time Series
The statistics and chart indicates Simple Moving Average just calculates the average value by performing a mean operation on given data but it changes 
from interval to interval. But whereas in Exponential Moving Average also uses Simple Mean Average in calculating its average but gives more weightage 
to the newly added value as the latest value has more weightage.
EMA values is little smoothened when compared to Original Stock values indicates the nature of Exponential Moving Averages.


		(Add fig for SMA , EMA and both together)




		2023- Stock Price Prediction using Moving Average Time Series
				. Conclusion (need to be evaluated)
In this study the experimental work is carried out on the SMA and EMA. The comparative analysis is represented using cumulative moving average. It 
is observed that EMA is best moving average method as compared to SMA for the presented financial time series data. To support the performance of 
this moving average the stochastic regression method is used to observe the good quality approach. 